---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

### Open Source
When I hear the term "open source," I think of software that is freely available and collaborative, which can be modified by the ideas of a community.

Some advantages of open vs. closed source are the ability for users to (potentially) have a direct impact on the product, by sharing their ideas or making changes to the software themselves.

Some potential problems with open source are that having source code easily accessible might make it easier for others to attempt plagiarizing the code.


### Projects

* **Firefox**: Mozilla's open source browser. Before I switched to Chrome, Firefox was my preferred browser, and is still a close second.

* **GIMP**: Image manipulation software, very similar to Photoshop. I don't use this anymore, but to 13 year-old me, who was very interested in graphic design but couldn't afford professional alternatives like Photoshop, this was the greatest thing since sliced bread! It may even be the reason I'm a Computer Science major today, because my graphic design interest grew into a web design/development interest, which then grew into an overall software development interest. (I didn't even know what open source *was* at the time I used GIMP, though).

* **Habitica**: an RPG-like to-do list, where you earn rewards for your character upon completing tasks (or the opposite if you fail to do so), to put it simply. There isn't really an alternative that I know of, as it's quite a unique site. If you take away the game elements, though, I suppose most to-do list apps could replace it. When I discovered that it was open source, I became very excited; I'd really like to contribute somehow, but I wasn't really sure how to get started in the community. (Hopefully OSSD will change that).

* **VLC Media Player**: a media player that supports several types of video/audio files; I don't use it terribly often anymore, just because I rarely download or edit videos in those formats. Possible alternatives are KMPlayer and RealPlayer.

### Questions for Tom Callaway from Red Hat
* What would you say is the biggest advantage (and disadvantage) of a business built around open source software?
* What are some steps that can be taken (or that Red Hat specifically has taken) to avoid some of the disadvantages?
