---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

# Part 1: Website Fixes
*My [Pull Request](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/pull/49)*

I was assigned to issue 27 to fix a mistake on the course syllabus page; specifically, the Academic Integrity Policy & Email Etiquette had been swapped. The steps I took are as follows:
1. Fork the repo
2. Create a branch to work on (`git branch ckilcrease`, then `git checkout branch`)
3. Opened syllabus.markdown and swapped the titles of each section, so that each policy corresponded to the correct text.
4. Added my file for staging (`git add syllabus.markdown`)
5. Commited my changes (`git commit -m "..."`) (don't remember my commit message, but I promise it was more descriptive than that)
6. Pushed the changes to my fork & branch (`git push -u origin ckilcrease`)
7. Opened a pull request to merge my changes


# Part 2: Triage
I decided to sign up for email alerts from node ~~which I didn't know was open source until I saw it on CodeTriage.~~ It's a JavaScript runtime that I used/learned in a previous course.

Here's an interesting issue (opened 5 months ago!) I got an email about:
* [Memory leak due to process.fork()](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/15651)
  * User explained he was experiencing a memory leak in an app that used process.fork() to create several child processes. He provided code that recreated the issue in comments, and noted that another version of Node also had the issue.
  * A pull request to fix the issue was made, but it looks like the issue wasn't completely resolved, because it was reopened. Cause hasn't been found yet.
  * Most recently, another user verified that it was occurring in production environments about a month ago.

  It's interesting to see the discussion and investigation that has been going on for months on this issue. I was a bit surprised to see it's still open (although 660 issues are open at the time I'm writing this), since node seems rather large (nearly 2000 contributors!) and active.
